Every program in Java is written as a class. Java is an object-oriented language and we’ll learn more about classes and objects in Unit 2. Inside the class, there can be a main method that starts the program. When you ask the Java run-time to run a class, it will always start execution in the main method. Here is the template for a simple Java program with a main method:

public class MyClass
{
   public static void main(String[] args)
   {
      // Put your code here!
   }
}

Note:
In Java every open curly brace { must have a matched close curly brace }. These are used to start and end class definitions and method definitions.

Every Java program must have the first two lines and the last two closed curly braces. We will explore this more as we progress further in the class.


Print Commands
Java has two different print commands to print output to the screen:
System.out.println(value) : prints the value followed by a new line (ln)
System.out.print(value) : prints the value without advancing to the next line


System.out.println("Hi there!"); prints out the characters between the first " and the second " followed by a new line. The "Hi there!" is called a string literal, and it can have zero to many characters enclosed in starting and ending double quotes.

Most command keywords in Java must be in lowercase, but class names such as System and String are capitalized. Commands in Java must end with a semicolon (;). Think of the semicolon (;) in Java like a period (.) in English. You use a semicolon (;) to show the end of a Java statement, just the way you use a period (.) to show the end of an English sentence. You will not be penalized on the exam if you forget the semicolon. However, your programs won’t run without it.


Summary
print(): print() method in Java is used to display a text on the console. This text is passed as the parameter to this method in the form of String. This method prints the text on the console and the cursor remains at the end of the text at the console. The next printing takes place from just here.

println(): println() method in Java is also used to display a text on the console. This text is passed as the parameter to this method in the form of String. This method prints the text on the console and the cursor remains at the start of the next line at the console. The next printing takes place from the next line.
